95332423Q0035
Page 9 of 69
None
Clauses incorporated by full text
Section C
Belize Technical Support Services
STATEMENT OF WORK
1 INTRODUCTION
The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) is a United States (U.S.) Government Agency established under the Millennium
Challenge Act of 2003. MCC works with developing countries and provides aid that reinforces sound political, economic, and 
social policies that promote poverty reduction through economic growth. The majority of countries eligible for MCC funding 
have requested assistance in addressing local infrastructure needs. As such, MCC requires technical advisory support for a 
range of consulting services in connection with the development, assessment, design, delivery, and operations of 
infrastructure projects in countries in the process of developing their Compacts. For more information on MCC, please visit 
www.mcc.gov
2 BACKGROUND
MCC selected Belize for a five-year government to government grant to fund a program aimed at reducing poverty and
stimulating economic growth. Belize was selected because it offers MCC the opportunity to engage with a country that is
committed to democratic governance, reducing the rising poverty rate, addressing the significant challenges to economic
growth, and mitigating its vulnerability to external shocks.
The most recent analysis of the country's growth impediments completed by the MCC identified five development constraints:
access to finance, natural capital management, government regulation and tax policy, education, and electricity costs.
The Government of Belize (GOB) elected to focus on two of these constraints for further development and to potentially be
addressed in the Compact; Education and Electricity:
• Education: Low quality of education has led to shortages of trained professionals
• Electricity: High cost of electricity drives up input costs for all industries
Education: The education constraint can be categorized as the following. Though completion rates in primary education are
at or near 100%, the education system suffers low returns in primary education, low standardized test scores, and high
repetition rates suggest low quality of primary education. Secondary education mirrors this low quality but is further
exacerbated by high dropout rates; gross enrollment in 2020-2021 was 72.8%. Tertiary education has high returns but low
participation due to high dropout from and low quality of secondary education. Consequently, poor quality of
primary/secondary schooling is leading to a shortage of skilled workers
Electricity: The high cost of electricity acts as a constraint to the growth of businesses, especially businesses with high power
reliance. Additionally, volatility of prices due to reliance on imports damages investor confidence on business reliability. During
the constraint analysis, several local businesses, ministries, and professional associations were engaged and most of them
cited that the cost of electricity was an impediment to business development in the country. According to a 2010 Enterprise
Survey, 68.8% of Belize's large businesses cite high electricity costs as a major constraint on their business, indicating that
larger and more energy-intensive firms would have greater difficulties in their business operations. As a result, these firms
maintain similar levels of employment within their industries while maintaining lower production levels, lower profits, and
limited reinvestment. Additionally, there is also evidence that higher costs of energy affect the profitability of Micro, Small and
Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and the productivity of farm enterprises
95332423Q0035
Page 10 of 69
Belize Electricity Limited (BEL) has not signed contracts to significantly expand its cost-effective renewable energy 
portfolio even though the government's Sustainable Energy Roadmap 2021-2040 calls for investment in cost-competitive 
renewable energy. Consequently, residential and commercial rates per kilowatt hour (kWh) remain high in Central America, 
limiting users' disposable income and consumption. In vulnerable groups, this reduces their purchasing power, which 
prevents them from affording healthy foods, education, and healthcare.
2.1. Belize - Background
Belize is a small, open, and services-oriented economy complemented by agriculture, commercial fishing, and manufacturing 
industries. Within its services sector, international tourism is the cornerstone, accounting for a significant share of Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP). Belize's economy has experienced major shifts in productive sectors and employment patterns in 
recent decades. Data from the Statistical Institute of Belize show that the share of GDP from the service (tertiary) sector 
increased from 62% to 71% between 1997 and 2017, while the share from the primary and secondary sectors declined from 
18% to 13% and 20% to 16% respectively. Likewise, during the same time period, the service sector's share of employees 
increased from 56% to 65% of the labor force, while the primary and secondary sector's share went from 28% to 18% and 
16% to 17%, respectively.
Belize's economy is vulnerable to economic shocks stemming from climate change, natural disasters and adverse economic 
conditions affecting tourism markets like the U.S.. Other economic concerns include foreign reserve adequacy linked to an 
increasing dependence on imports and the government's long-term debt sustainability. In terms of the former, the economy 
engages in the exportation of raw primary products which are lower on the value chain and imports higher value-added goods 
for consumption. As for the latter, recent developments including the re-basing of GDP (2022) and restructuring of external 
debt have contributed to a considerable improvement in its debt-to-GDP ratio (debt ratio). However, given the frequency of 
global economic shocks, and the weather-related issues that Belize has faced, the economy has stagnated in terms of real 
GDP growth within the past two decades and most recently with the global pandemic reducing the country's income 
classification in 2020.
2.2. Power Sector Context
The electricity sector is currently overseen by the GOB, through the Ministry of Public Utilities, Energy and LogisticsEnergy Unit (MPUELE). The Energy Unit's main functions include planning, promoting, and effectively managing the 
production, delivery, and use of energy through energy efficiency, renewable energy, and cleaner production interventions. 
One of their main outputs is the National Energy Policy Framework, which effectively plans the course of the industry and 
its development based on projected demand, using renewable energy sources. The electricity sector is regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission (PUC). The PUC evaluates the tariff proposal brought in by the distributor and determines final retail 
tariffs.
 Belize Electricity Limited (BEL) is the sole distributor of energy and is the owner of the transmission and distribution 
network. The delivery of electricity to the end-use customers is a monopoly franchise. The dispatch of generation is centrally
controlled by BEL, with hydroelectric production optimized across wet-dry seasons, variable renewables (biomass from 
sugar mills) taken as produced, and all other sources to be dispatched in merit order. The GOB owns approximately twothirds of BEL and a Canadian energy company, Fortis, owns the remaining one-third. Fortis also owns generation facilities in
Belize that sell power to BEL, creating a potential conflict of interest.
Over a recent five year period, Mexican electricity imports have provided approximately forty to fifty percent of the 
country's electricity supply. Hydroelectric power has accounted for about thirty to forty percent. Biomass generation 
accounts for about ten to fifteen percent and fossil fuel resources account for about five to ten percent. In 2021, BEL 
registered a peak demand of 103 megawatts (MW), sourced 646 gigawatt hours (GWh) and sold 560.8 Gwh of electricity, 
earning $118 million in revenue from 107,292 accounts. BEL's average cost of power from 2017 to 2021 was 110 
US$/MWh. The overall cost of electricity is high relative to Central American standards. A Root Cause Analysis found that 
a primary source of the high cost of electricity was the high price of wholesale power purchases.
95332423Q0035
Page 11 of 69
The MPUELE has acknowledged that Belize can derive significant benefits from the development of renewable energy 
resources, the implementation of energy efficiency and conservation programs, and the commercialization of renewable 
energy technologies. MPUELE has articulated its strategic plan to enhance its planning for a Sustainable Energy Sector for 
Belize in the Belize National Sustainable Energy Strategy 2012 - 2033. Belize has several renewable energy sources that 
have and continue to be under various levels of evaluation and development including biomass resources, wind and 
photovoltaic (PV) resources, and waste to energy opportunities.
2.3. Compact Development and Implementation Phases
This contract is expected to span Compact development through the first years of Compact implementation. The Contractor 
will be required to support MCC in working with the GOB and other program stakeholders to conduct additional analysis 
necessary to understand challenges; develop recommendations to address these challenges; and develop resources and 
tools (e.g., work plans, terms of reference, budgets, etc.) necessary to operationalize the recommendations for 
implementation.
Table 1. Compact Lifecycle Activities.
Partner Country Activities MCC Activities
Preliminary Analysis and Problem Diagnosis
• Establishes Core Team responsible for developing the
compact 
• Conducts preliminary analyses
o constraints to economic growth
o social and gender inequality
o investment opportunity assessment
o natural capital and climate change
• Commences initial public consultations
• Expands compact development team
• Analyzes key root causes of binding constraints
• Defines, develops initial project ideas to address
constraints
• Submits Concept Notes
• Assists with and provides feedback on preliminary
analyses
• Provides guidance on public consultations and resultsfocused project design principles and tools
• Supports root cause analysis work
• Commences due diligence and sectoral assessments
• Reviews, approves Concept Notes for further
development (summarized in an Opportunity Memo)
Project Development
Joint Tasks that input into a Joint Design Document
• Defines and scopes specific projects and activities
• Builds project logic for proposed Compact
• Identifies intended beneficiaries
• Consults stakeholders on project design
• Conducts feasibility, environmental, climate, resettlement, and other studies Often such technical studies are managed
by MCC on behalf of the partner country. In this case, MCC would take the lead on preparing terms of reference,
managing the procurement process, and managing the consultant. The country partner would participate in all 
document reviews, along with relevant stakeholders (e.g., the utility or relevant ministry).
• Measures expected economic impact
• Identifies risks and mitigation measures
• Begins establishing structures needed in
implementation
• Approves Compact development funding for feasibility
or other studies required to inform project development
• Conducts appraisal of projects/studies
• Provides investment recommendation to MCC senior
management
• Once agreed, MCC notifies Congress of its intent to
enter compact negotiations
95332423Q0035
Page 12 of 69
Compact Negotiations and Signing 
• Finalizes monitoring and evaluation framework
• Negotiates legal, financial, technical terms of program
• Creates dedicated unit for implementation
• Notifies Congress of intent to negotiate
• Defines budget and commits funding
• Obtains approval of MCC's Board
• Signs agreements
Pre-Entry Into Force (Detailed design and implementation preparation)
• Establishes the Millennium Challenge Account
Accountable Entity
• Completes Implementing Entity agreements
• Completes annual budgets and implementation plans
• Procures and initiates/completes detailed design work,
Terms of Reference/bidding documents for 
implementation, and work plans 
• Pre-qualifies consultants and Contractors for early
implementation procurements
• Assists with and provides feedback on the process
• Provides guidance on formation of accountable entity,
staffing, budgets, and work plans
• Reviews, provides input to, and approves Terms of
Reference and bidding documents, environmental,
social and resettlement studies, project designs and
implementation plans
• Reviews progress towards the satisfaction of Compact
conditions precedent.
Implementation and Construction Monitoring
• Procures and manages contracts for implementation
contractors, project management and other support
consultants, and supervisory engineers
• Coordinates and reports on all implementation efforts
and risk management.
• Ensures appropriate communications and engagement
of project implementing entities/partners and other
stakeholders
• Ensures compliance with all Compact conditions and
MCC standards and policies.
• Coordinates commissioning and acceptance of
works/taking over in coordination with supervisory
engineers and implementing entities
• With support from the supervisory engineers, manages
contract retentions, claims, and defects periods defect
liability periods (DLP), as well as orderly closeout of all
environmental, resettlement, and social activities of the
Compact.
• Monitors all aspects of project implementation, from
capacity building and technical assistance to 
construction, including the monitoring of schedules, 
cost/budget, quality control, risk management, scope 
control, and consultant and contractor performance 
assessment
• reviews efforts to clear rights of way and implement
RAPs prior to the start of construction, and compliance 
with MCC resettlement policy
• Monitors compliance with MCC environmental, social,
health and safety standards (and IFC performance 
standards, as adopted by MCC)
• Participates in inspections and taking over of completed
works 
• Evaluates project results and sustainability
• Supports partner country counterparts in
learning/implementing best practices in project
management. 
Compact Closeout
• Manages orderly Compact closeout according to MCC
closure guidelines and the approved closure plan.
• Monitor Compact closeout, including any outstanding
activity during works contract Defects Liability periods,
and contract closeouts or assignment to partner country
entities.
• Document Compact achievements and lessons learned.
3 OBJECTIVES
The Energy Practice Group at the MCC is issuing this contract for a Contractor to provide technical support during compact 
development and implementation in Belize, as needed for the definition and implementation of an energy project. The period 
of performance (option years) also extends beyond Compact signing into pre-implementation support (before the Compact 
enters into force) and Compact implementation. 
95332423Q0035
Page 13 of 69
4 SCOPE OF WORK
The Contractor will be required to support MCC in working with the GOB and other program stakeholders to conduct 
additional analysis necessary to understand challenges; develop recommendations to address these challenges; and develop 
resources and tools (e.g., work plans, terms of reference, budgets, etc.) necessary to operationalize the recommendations for 
implementation. Some, but not necessarily all, aspects of the work described will be requested of the Contractor. The tasks to 
be implemented will be defined in Technical Directives drafted during the scope of the assignment. This work is expected to 
take part in two phases; a base year and option years. 
Base Year
During the Base Year of performance MCC will require the Contractor to support Compact development by 
providing technical advice, opinions and recommendations on activities that will form part of the Compact. This will 
include meetings with MCC and the GOB to understand existing program concepts focused on addressing root causes
to the power sector challenges. The Contractor should establish a clear baseline and understanding of relevant issues 
through review of existing documentation (laws, policies, technical studies, etc.) and consultations with relevant 
stakeholders. The Contractor will provide recommendations and guidance to MCC in support of preparation of the 
final Compact scope, budget, project management approach, and other required elements. The Contractor may also 
be called on to support MCC during negotiations with the GOB prior to Compact signing including providing 
recommendations on Conditions Precedent that may be necessary to support success of the Program. This work 
would be accomplished through a combination of desk work and travel to Belize.
Option Years
MCC may elect to exercise up to four (4) Option Years following the Base Year. During the Option Years of 
performance, MCC will require the Contractor to provide support in start-up and oversight of the Compact's power 
sector project. This would include tasks to support MCC in developing work plans and other project management 
documents; refining and updating terms of reference for consultants hired under the Compact; reviewing and 
analyzing deliverables and other project documents, analyzing project timelines and risks, assessing progress and 
making recommendations on project implementation. This work would be accomplished through a combination of 
desk work and travel to Belize.
4.1 Sector Situation and Program Concept Assessment 
MCC has gathered significant data on the power sector in Belize including background documents, studies and information 
from interviews. The Contractor shall develop an understanding of the power sector context in Belize, including relevant 
policy, technical, financial, environmental and political factors. The Contractor will also review activities proposed for inclusion 
in the Compact to develop further understanding for the context and goals of this assignment. The Contractor may be required
to undertake, update or analyze situation assessments and make recommendations on power sector activities which may 
include but are not limited to:
*Sector governance including policy, regulatory, environmental, legal and institutional assessment. Assessment of
institutional capacity across government and utility companies
*New resource procurement practices including the full range of analyses; resource planning, bid structure and
preparation, contract negotiation and project implementation
*Assessment of the current state of strategies and initiatives for the development of renewable energy resources and/or
renewable energy off-sets
*Demand side analyses of energy efficiency technical and economic potential, plus implementation strategies
95332423Q0035
Page 14 of 69
*Tariff analyses for cost of service, feed-in-tariffs, performance based ratemaking and social or lifeline tariffs
*Sector reform proposals to encourage transparent and competitive outcomes.
*An assessment of the climate resilience planning process which may include.
o climate vulnerability assessments to identify the risks to electric utility assets from the climate change
o climate resilience plans to evaluate options to reduce vulnerabilities and enhance system resilience
o assess the adequacy of the climate models utilized in future planning scenarios within a forward
looking context.
4.2 Project Appraisal and Investment Recommendations
Following initial sector assessment and project reviews, the Contractor shall support MCC in conducting additional project 
appraisal and preparatory work. The goal of this set of activities is to support MCC in working with the GOB to move from 
project concepts to investment-ready projects, including detailed activity descriptions, work plans, budgets and initial drafts of 
terms of reference for Compact consultants. The work under this set of tasks will therefore include a combination of technical 
analysis, program and activity development, and implementation planning. 
To address the causes of high wholesale electricity prices, proposed compact activities include programs to improve 
governance of the electricity sector and projects to add additional low cost resources. The contractor may be required to 
provide detailed assessment of the feasibility, practicality, environmental impacts and risks associated with all of these 
initiatives and propose alternatives where necessary. The proposed initiatives are described below. 
Improving electricity sector governance to reduce noncompetitive outcomes. 
This component aims to improve the institutional structure of the electricity sector and enhance the capability of MPUELE and 
the PUC to monitor energy sector operations, design and implement long-term expansion plans, and fulfill other legally 
proscribed roles to achieve more efficient generation and service in the long term. To achieve this, the following interventions 
are proposed: 
• Provision of capacity-building and information technology systems to allow MPUELE to oversee Integrated Resource
Planning activities and to ensure that resource acquisitions align with overall GoB policies. For example, this may
include improving:
o load forecasting capabilities
o integrated resource and resilience planning
o risk analyses for new resource cost drivers
o enforcement capacity to ensure alignment between GoB policies and new resource decisions
• Provision of capacity-building and information technology systems to support the PUC to improve:
o The efficiency and transparency of dispatch and other aspects of the system's administration;
o Market rules for the dispatch and acquisition of resources to ensure consistency with legislative requirements and
overall GoB energy policy; and
o Contracting and use of Cost-of-Service Analysis that informs tariff reviews.
Support the acquisition of new, low-cost supply and demand side resources.
A primary focus of this concept is to support GoB agencies in implementing their utility-scale renewable energy 
expansion plans in a way that is structured, aligns with the overall goals of the sector, and keeps new resource costs to 
a minimum. This concept includes several targeted actions:
• Contracting of transaction advisory services to aid the successful tendering and implementation of new IPPs;
• Provision of credit enhancements that reduce the cost of capital for IPPs;
• Facilitating utility-scale renewable energy development by funding feasibility studies and resource assessments for
relevant renewable technologies;
• Technical assistance with developing and implementing a set of modernized codes, including a generation code,
grid code, and consumer electric code to facilitate the integration of renewable energy;
95332423Q0035
Page 15 of 69
• Provision of capacity building to efficiently manage a growing proportion of variable renewable energy while
maintaining adequate grid flexibility and reliability; and
• Improvement of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition, and related operational systems, to allow the
utility to manage operational duties efficiently and economically.
Another avenue to displace the reliance on expensive existing generation is to support the GoB in facilitating 
distributed generation, primarily small-scale solar photovoltaic resources. This component will enable the GoB, 
businesses, and households to make investments in distributed generation, reduce the need for relatively expensive 
generation, and provide a secondary source of surplus power through the ability to sell excess generation into the grid. 
Specific actions to facilitate distributed generation include: 
• Provision of technical assistance in electricity tariff implementation to facilitate distributed generation;
• Credit facilitation targeting households and Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises in the acquisition of distributed
generation investments; and
• Lower import tariffs for distributed generation equipment.
An additional component to reduce reliance on existing expensive generation will be to support enhanced energy 
efficiency and energy conservation among end-users. The sustainable energy strategy includes a number of 
programs and activities to support the development of the country's energy resources and improve energy efficiency and
conservation.
The Belize Development Finance Corporation (BDFC) recently concluded an energy efficiency market analysis and pilot 
program to develop Energy Service Companies that could provide comprehensive energy savings services to end-users.
Compact activities could build on the work with the BDFC to follow up on recommended actions, including: 
• Assessing the viability and effectiveness of financial and market mechanisms to address market failures in the adoption
of energy efficiency (EE) measures;
• Promoting EE practices, including EE education, technical standards and training, energy audits, rebates for EE lighting
and appliances, and retrofitting public facilities;
• Reducing import duties on EE equipment; and
• Assessing the retail electricity tariff structure for barriers to EE implementation.
4.3 Compact Negotiation, Preparation and Management: 
The Contractor may be requested to provide continuing support to MCC during Compact negotiations and preparation of 
implementation arrangements. This could include providing recommendations to MCC on Conditions Precedent (CPs) for 
entry into force of the Compact, responding to GOB proposals for changes to program scope, and other tasks required to 
ensure signature of the Compact agreement. The Contractor may be required to support MCC with tasks prior to entry 
into force of the Compact including:
• Recommendations on CPs that MCC may want to include in the Compact agreement requiring the GOB or other
stakeholders to take critical actions prior to MCC funding being released. Assess progress or compliance with CPs to
entry into force through review of documentation or evidence provided by the GOB;
• Inputs to the development of program management tools including recruitment plans and position descriptions, work
plans, budgets, reporting templates, communication and coordination plans, etc.;
• Track events in Belize's power sector and prepare periodic updates on sector context including technical, financial or
political developments that would impact on plans or assumptions in the Compact.
4.4 Other Duties 
Financial and Economic Assessments
The Contractor may be asked to support to the MCC's economic and financial analyses. Tasks may include evaluation for the 
following:
95332423Q0035
Page 16 of 69
o electricity energy and peak demand projections
o new resource acquisition plans, associated risks and policy implications
o the numbers of households and individuals likely to benefit by proposed interventions
o climate mitigation and resilience measures
o cost of service and retail tariff analyses
o impact of policy reforms on demand, supply, prices and consumption behavior
Gender and Social Inclusion
The contractor will be asked to integrate Gender and Social Inclusion (GSI) considerations into lines-of-inquiry, whenever 
feasible, as mandated by MCC's Gender Policy and Gender and Social Inclusion Operational Milestones. For example, in 
support of monitoring and evaluation, whenever the contractor collects data from individuals, the contractor may be requested 
to collect additional data relevant to MCC's social inclusion efforts (sex, ethnicity, first language, etc.) and provide analysis on 
differential impacts on specific subgroups. Likewise, the contractor may be requested to collect such data and/or provide 
related analyses through the addition of GSI-specific questions to any surveys or questionnaires undertaken. The contractor 
will be supported in these efforts by—and is encouraged to work closely with—GSI points-of-contact in the BCDT and the 
MCC. Additional tasks may be added as modules to existing workstreams where feasible, or as stand-alone tasks, including
but not limited to assessments of:
• employers in the Belizean energy sector as inclusive and equitable workplaces;
• the policy landscape that dictates how the energy industry should function to leverage GSI-specific challenges that
inhibits socially excluded groups contributions to sustained economic growth;
• existing pro-poor/price reduction mechanisms (i.e. lifeline tariffs, social tariffs, shared metering, golden citizen
award, financing, etc.) for effectiveness, efficacy and efficiency in terms of: (i) reaching target populations, and (ii)
providing significant/meaningful reductions to domestic/household income expenditures on electricity by those
populations; and
• inclusion incentivizing mechanisms in the energy sector, in terms of providing opportunities for women-owned
and/or excluded groups to participate as entrepreneurs in the energy sector.
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E)
In coordination with the MCC M&E Specialist, the Contractor may be tasked to help identify the optimal indicators 
to use for project monitoring and evaluation and assist in establishing corresponding baseline performance metrics 
and annual/end of compact/post-compact targets. 
The Contractor may support MCC to:
• Identify indicators to reliably track/measure progress toward or achievement of the results that the projects are
designed to achieve
• Produce targets for key results indicators, as part of project design, or verify the appropriateness of targets set
through other technical due diligence;
• Suggest appropriate method and costs of data collection and sources of the data; and
95332423Q0035
Page 17 of 69
• In the context of due diligence work, identify capacity needs for data collection, quality, and management
within the relevant implementing entities and make recommendations for possible improvements.
• Support MCC and the GoB to develop a project logic diagram that links the proposed activities to the project
objective. The M&E indicators will then measure the results in the project logic.
Other Tasks
In addition to the support for overseeing and monitoring work on Compact activities described above, the Contractor
may be called on to provide technical inputs on specific issues, documents, deliverables or other program activities, 
including the following items: 
• Review and provide comments of technical studies including, but not limited to the National Energy Framework,
the Least Cost Plan, a Cost of Service Analysis, Market Rules and Grid Codes;
• Provide recommendations to MCC on structuring sector oversight and coordination mechanisms to improve
outcomes in priority reform areas, including but not limited to institutional structures and tools or processes;
• Assess existing challenges with power sector oversight and coordination to understand current practices, gaps
and shortcomings, and options to strengthen these functions;
• Develop recommendations on requirements and processes for new supply options, including financing options,
timelines, and activities required to support the GOB in adding these new sources of supply; and
• Conduct any additional analysis of requirements to implement activities in identified priority areas, including
institutional arrangements, financial resources, technical inputs, enabling policy or legislative framework, and
human resource requirements;
• Track relevant developments in Belize's power sector to assess potential impacts or contributions to the Compact
objectives
• Provide general technical and/or contractual advice and assistance to MCC related to the activities
• Verify, review, and assess the adequacy of all reports that are provided by the Compact consultants, implementing
entities and GOB,
• Make presentations on implementation progress and performance to MCC annually (in Washington, DC) and provide an
annual Implementation Review and Performance written report.
4.5 Administrative, Technical and Local Support
The Contractor shall provide sufficient administrative and technical support throughout the term of the activity at rates 
approved by MCC.
5. Conflict of Interest Notice:
The Contractor and its subcontractor(s) would be precluded from quoting on work and services to be procured by the local 
MCA accountable entity or using funds advanced under a Compact in the relevant country, unless the Contractor(s) submits a
mitigation plan sufficient to ameliorate any conflict of interest pursuant to the rules applicable to the procurement process.
